# FSROPT

This is the open-source component of our paper "When Function Signature Recovery Meets Compiler Optimization", published in IEEE Security & Privacy (S&P) 2021. It allows you to retrieve argument count information for callees and callsites of compiled C/C++ applications using the improved policy metioned in the paper.  

# Disclaimer
If, for some weird reason, you think running this code broke your device, you get to keep both pieces.

# There are three components:

1. Ground Truth Collection
It is development as an LLVM pass, which will collect the groundtruth of the function signature, including the number and types if arguments for each function and indirect caller.
	# In order to collect the ground truth you need to use wllvm to compile the source code. Please go to https://github.com/travitch/whole-program-llvm to find how to compile source code with wllvm and get the whole bitcode.

	# Collect the ground truth based on the generated bitcode.

	* *Compile LLVM*

	cd FSROPT
	mkdir install
	cd install

	-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release cmake ../llvm-7.0.0.src
	make -j4
	make install

	* *Ground truth collection*
	you can use the following command to get the ground truth:

	llc -g-truth  -filetype=obj test.bc -o test.clang.o 2> test-llvm.txt

	Where test.bc is the bitcode file generated by wllvm and extract-bc; test-llvm.txt has the ground truth for each function and indirect caller.


2. Improved Function Signature Recovery Policy Enforcement
This is implemented in typearmor-master
# Installation
To build the static analysis pass, we first need to build Dyninst. 

Note that the following was tested in a Ubuntu Desktop 18.04 LTS. 

First install some packages:

    sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake 
    sudo apt-get install libboost-all-dev libelf-dev libiberty-dev

Next, download and build Dyninst. 

    cd
    wget https://github.com/dyninst/dyninst/archive/v9.3.1.tar.gz
    tar -zxvf v9.3.1.tar.gz
    cd dyninst-9.3.1
    mkdir install
    cd install
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=`pwd`
    make -j2
    make install

Next, build TypeArmor with our improved policy:

	cd typearmor-master
    # update DYNINST_ROOT in ./envsetup.sh
    . build_envsetup
    cd static
    make
    make install
    cd ..
    cd di-opt
    make
    make install

You can now run it on any given binary.
	cd
    cd server-bins
    ../run-ta-static.sh ./addr2line-clang-O2

This will generate new binary info file(s) in `../out/binfo.*`. Log output will be pushed to `./ta.log`.


# binfo format

Each `binfo.*` file contains different sections:

* *[varargs]*
  Variadic functions:

    ```<address> = <min consumed argccount> (<function symbol>) ```

* *[args]*
  Regular (non-variadic) functions:

    ```<address> = <min consumed argcount> (<function symbol>) width for each argument reg_bitmap possible compilation```

* *[icall-args]*
  Indirect callsites:

    ```<address> = <max prepared argcount> (<function symbol>.<callsite index in function>) width for each argument reg_bitmap possible compilation```

* *[plts]*
  PLT entries.

* *[disas-errors]*
  Disassembly errors.

* *[non-voids]*
  Functions that seem to be of type non-void (i.e., they write RAX):

    ```<address> = <function symbol>```

* *[prof-goals]*
  Indirect calls that could benefit from a profiling sessions:
  
    ```<call address> = <function symbol>.<index> -> <address of function from which we could not backtrack> = <target_function_symbol>```

* *[unused]*
  Function is never used.

* *[done]*
  Marker that indicates the end of the binfo.
  
#notation for possible compilation
* *readRDX*
  functions which read %rdx after a call instruction
  
* *read63*
  functions which read 64 bit argument register, but the actual argument register is 32-bit, including lea and Push
	
* *Icall*
  Indirect caller in wrapper function and there is no direct caller for this wrapper function
	
* *Dcall*
  Indirect caller in wrapper function and there are direct callers for this wrapper function

* *ImmArg*
  Indirect callers whose passed arguments are immediate values

* *PointerArg*
  Indirect callers whose passed arguments are pointers points to .data and .text sections
  
* *Xor*
  Indirect callers whose arguments are passed using xor instructions

* *13Arg*
  Indirect caller whose arguments read 16-bit to 32-bit register

* *36Arg*
  Indirect call whose arguments read 32-bit to 64-bit register

3. Recovered Function Signature Comparison
This is implemented in the python script comparison.py, which compares the recovered function signature with the collected ground truth.






